=== PAGE 1 ===
Marketing in a Digital World
Module 4: Price
Complete Detailed Course Notes
Gies College of Business
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

=== PAGE 2 ===
Contents
1 Module 4 Overview 3
Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Goals and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Guiding Questions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Key Phrases/Concepts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
1.1 Module 4 Readings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
2 Price Overview 6
2.1 Price Overview Lecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
2.2 Street Interviews: Price . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
3 Pay What You Want (Part 1) 10
3.1 Pay What You Want Part 1 Lecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
3.2 Denition of Pay What You Want . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
3.3 Deeper Dive: Three Key Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
4 Pay What You Want (Part 2) 13
4.1 Pay What You Want Part 2 Lecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
4.2 Four Practical Recommendations for PWYW . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
5 Case Study: Panera 16
5.1 Case Study: Panera Lecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
5.2 Three Key Takeaways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
5.3 Case Study Questions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
6 Freemium (Part 1) 19
6.1 Freemium Part 1 Lecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
6.2 Examples of Freemium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
6.3 Denition of Freemium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
6.4 Deeper Dive: Three Key Observations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
7 Freemium (Part 2) 23
7.1 Freemium Part 2 Lecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
7.2 Four Practical Recommendations for Freemium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
1

=== PAGE 3 ===
CONTENTS 2
8 Exercise: It's Full of Sparks 26
8.1 Exercise: It's Full of Sparks Lecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
8.2 Exercise Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
8.3 It's Full of Sparks Assignment Example . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
9 Interview with Cody Burch 29
9.1 Interview: Cody Burch on Pay What You Want . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
10 Course Farewell 33
10.1 Course Farewell Lecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
11 Quiz Questions and Answers 34
11.1 Quiz: Price Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
11.2 Quiz: Pay What You Want . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
11.3 Quiz: Freemium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
11.4 Quiz: It's Full of Sparks Exercise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
11.5 Module 4 Comprehensive Quiz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36

=== PAGE 4 ===
Module 4 Overview
Overview
How has the digital revolution altered the way products are priced? In this module, you
will learn how new digital tools are enabling customers to take a more active role in
setting the prices they pay for the products they buy. After introducing the notion of
price and how this aspect of the marketing mix is changing, we will explore how University
of Illinois students use digital tools to obtain lower prices for the things they buy. We will
then examine emerging digital concepts: Pay What You Want (PWYW) and Freemium
pricing strategies.
In addition to learning about these concepts, you will also have the opportunity to
apply them through a hands-on exercise (It's Full of Sparks) [Honors Assignment] and a
real-world case study (Panera). As a result of these various learning activities, you will
develop a deep understanding of how digital tools are transforming the pricing landscape.
Goals and Objectives
ˆ Understand the pricing aspect of the marketing mix.
ˆ Appreciate how digital tools are changing how products are priced.
ˆ Learn about the Freemium model and how this pricing strategy works.
ˆ Learn what Pay What You Want (PWYW) is and how this pricing strategy works.
ˆ Analyze a real-world case that employs a PWYW pricing strategy.
ˆ Engage in a hands-on exercise in which you can experience the Freemium model
[Honors Assignment].
Guiding Questions
ˆ What is the Pay What You Want (PWYW) pricing strategy, and how does it work?
ˆ What is the Freemium model, and how does it work?
ˆ How are new digital tools changing the way rms price their products and how
consumers evaluate prices?
3

=== PAGE 5 ===
1.1. MODULE 4 READINGS 4
Key Phrases/Concepts
Price strategy, Price segmentation, Pay What You Want, Freemium
1.1 Module 4 Readings
Required Reading
ˆ Gu, X., Kannan, P. K., & Ma, L. (2019). How companies can get the most out of
a freemium business model. Harvard Business Review .
ˆ Bennet, T. (2023), What is Pay What You Want Pricing? Priceva. https://
priceva.com/blog/pay-what-you-want-pricing
Academic Insights
ˆ Deng, Y., Lambrecht, A., & Liu, Y. (2023). Spillover Eects and Freemium Strategy
in the Mobile App Market. Management Science , 69(9), 5018-5041.
ˆ Boudreau, K. J., Jeppesen, L. B., & Miric, M. (2022). Competing on Freemium:
Digital competition with Network Eects. Strategic Management Journal , 43(7),
1374-1401.
ˆ Kim, J. Y., Natter, M., & Spann, M. (2009). Pay What You Want: A New Partic-
ipative Pricing Mechanism. Journal of Marketing , 73(1), 44-58.
ˆ Lu, S., Yao, D., Chen, X., & Grewal, R. (2021). Do Larger Audiences Generate
Greater Revenues Under Pay What You Want? Evidence From a Live Streaming
Platform. Marketing Science , 40(5), 964-984.
Additional Readings
ˆ Gerpott, T. (2017). Pay-what-you-want pricing: An integrative review of the em-
pirical research literature. Management Science Letters , 7(1), 35-62.
ˆ Hamari, J., Hanner, N., & Koivisto, J. (2019). Why pay premium in freemium
services? A study on perceived value, continued use and purchase intentions in
free-to-play games. International Journal of Information Management .
ˆ Kalb, I. (2013, October 2). Three ways companies decide the price of a product.
Business Insider .
ˆ Niemand, T., Mai, R., & Kraus, S. (2019). The zero-price eect in freemium busi-
ness models: The moderating eects of free mentality and pricequality inference.
Psychology & Marketing , 36(8), 773-790.

=== PAGE 6 ===
1.1. MODULE 4 READINGS 5
ˆ Tuttle, B. (2014, November 11). A brief history of `Pay what you want' businesses.
Money .
ˆ Viglia, G., Maras, M., Schumann, J., & Navarro-Martinez, D. (2019). Paying before
or paying after? Timing and uncertainty in pay-what-you-want pricing. Journal of
Service Research , 22(3), 272-284.
ˆ Weisstein, F. L., Kukar-Kinney, M., & Monroe, K. B. (2016). Determinants of
consumers' response to pay-what-you-want pricing strategy on the Internet. Journal
of Business Research , 69(10), 4313-4320.

=== PAGE 7 ===
Price Overview
2.1 Price Overview Lecture
[Lecture: Price Overview  Full Transcript]
Speaker: Steve
The last of the four P's is price, this aspect of the marketing mix focuses on the
amount a customer pays to acquire a product or service. Price is dierent from the other
three elements of the marketing, product, promotion and placement. These rst three
elements create value for a customer, while price captures this value for the rm. Thus,
having a good pricing strategy is critical for a rm's protability and perhaps is very
survival. The development of a pricing strategy is a complex decision and often entails
considering a product's cost of production, what customers are willing to pay, and the
prices of competing products.
For example, coke has traditionally employed a value focused pricing strategy in order
to ensure that this product is aordable to a mass market. Over the years, it has also
had intense competitive pressure from Pepsi, this coke has also tried to match the price
of this competitor. Today, a bottle or can of coke is typically just a dollar or two in the
US and perhaps even less than that in many other countries, so this product is quite
aordable to most consumers.
The price portion of the marketing mix has a number of key concepts, including
breakeven analysis, price elasticity and reference pricing. In this module, we'll focus on
two fundamental concepts, pricing strategy by rms and price knowledge among cus-
tomers, let's rst talk about pricing strategy.
A pricing strategy is a rm's basic approach to how it prices its products, rms can
employ a broad range of dierent pricing strategies. Three of the most common strate-
gies are cost based pricing, competitor-based pricing, and value based pricing. Cost-based
pricing is a technique in which the price of a product is based upon the cost of manu-
facturing or acquiring the product, plus a commonly accepted markup percentage. For
example, in the US, most car dealers price cars at their invoice price plus a margin of 5
to 10%.
Competitor-based pricing is a strategy in which the price of a product is based upon
closely matching the prices of key competitors. For example, the price of gasoline is
lowered by one gas station, nearby stations will typically lower their price to match the
6

=== PAGE 8 ===
2.1. PRICE OVER VIEW LECTURE 7
competitor. Value-based pricing is a strategy that focuses on the added value a product
delivers to its customers. For example, a cold soda on a hot day during a sporting event
is priced higher and provides more value than a soda sitting on a store half a mile down
the road.
Now, let's take a look at price knowledge. Knowledge about prices is important
because this knowledge helps set price expectations and also gives customers more power
in the marketplace, after all, knowledge is power. Academic research on this topic suggests
that for many product categories, consumers have a low level of price knowledge. For
example, one famous study in this domain found that fewer than half of supermarket
shoppers knew the price of items they placed in their shopping carts.
Subsequent research has found that although consumers don't have very accurate
recall of exact prices in their short term memory, they have pretty good recognition of
approximate price ranges in their long term memory. In other words, although most
consumers can't say how much something cost when asked to name its price, when they
see a price for a product, they can tell if that price is close to the one they're used to
seeing.
For most products we purchase, the price is set by the rm that either makes it or
sells it, we often don't know the price until we see it on the shelf. For example, I bought
this bottle of coke at my local grocery store for the price of $1.99. I didn't know the
exact price until I entered the store, and this price certainly wasn't negotiable.
This xed, rm-centered approach is starting to break down due to the rise of digital
tools, the price that we pay for something is increasingly under our control. The digital
revolution allows consumers to get lots of things for free and often choose the price that
ts them best.
A good example of this is information, for most of human history, information was
dicult to obtain and also quite expensive. For example, when I was young, there were
door to door encyclopedia salespeople who had charged thousands of dollars for a set
of books that contained what seemed like at that time, all the knowledge in the world.
Now, thanks to the digital revolution, all of us have access to unlimited information for
free, perhaps you're even viewing this video for free.
Overall, the rise of digital tools has made it possible to get lots of things that are either
free or quite inexpensive. For example, as we discussed in the prior module, Thingiverse
allows anyone in the world to download millions of dierent digital designs that can be
transformed into physical products for free.
Also, if you have a smartphone or a tablet, you probably downloaded an app that
was free but oered an opportunity to gain access to added features for a low price.
This business model is commonly referred to as a freemium. In sum, in this new digital
marketing environment, we are moving from xed prices to exible prices. In this module,
we discuss how new digital tools are changing this element of the marketing mix and

=== PAGE 9 ===
2.2. STREET INTER VIEWS: PRICE 8
altering how we think about price.
2.2 Street Interviews: Price
[Lecture: Price  Street Interviews Transcript]
Location: University of Illinois Quadrangle
Interviewer: Have you heard of the concept pay what you want?
Student 1: I mean, it's just paying however much you would pay for the product.
Student 2: I think I've heard of it, I've never used it.
Student 3: No.
Student 4: Yeah, more recently, so, the pay what you want, yeah, I would say it's a
very odd concept to us here in the United States.
Student 5: Is it possible? [LAUGH]
Interviewer: Do you like the idea?
Student 6: Yeah.
Student 7: Yeah?
Student 8: Yes.
Student 9: I've not heard. I heard pay what you need, but not pay what you want.
Interviewer: Okay.
Student 10: No, only now.
Interviewer: Okay, so that concept is you engage with a product or service, you get
it for them, let's say a burger, but then you determine how much you wanna pay.
Student 10: Okay.
Interviewer: Including nothing.
Student 10: That's good.
Interviewer: Have you ever experienced anything like that?
Student 10: No.
Interviewer: Okay.
Student 10: Never, never.
Interviewer: Are you familiar with the concept freemium?
Student 11: You mean premium? Freemium. No.
Student 12: No.
Student 13: No, no, no.
Interviewer: You know what freemium is? Have you heard of the concept freemium?
Student 14: No. Freemium, no.
Interviewer: Okay, so, freemium is this concept where you engage with a product
or service, like an online game, for free, but then if you want to advance or get more out
of it, you actually have to pay for something.
Student 15: I mean, I do like the free levels of Canva and stu like that.

=== PAGE 10 ===
2.2. STREET INTER VIEWS: PRICE 9
Interviewer: Yeah, perfect.
Student 16: I play some games every once in a while, so the freemium model is
something I'm very familiar with.
Student 17: As far as, again, social media is like that as well, everything's got its
own, free to use at rst, and then in-app purchases and stu like that come o from there.
Interviewer: Yeah, okay.
Student 18: I do have a workout app that the rst seven days were free...
Interviewer: There you go.
Student 18: And then you have to pay.
Interviewer: Perfect. So, yes. Did you pay for it?
Student 18: Yes, I did.
Interviewer: Was it worth it?
Student 18: Yes, it was, [LAUGH] keeps me on track.
Interviewer: Amazon have some special membership, I think.
Student 19: Absolutely. Prime, Amazon Prime.
Student 19: Prime, yes. Are you a prime member?
Student 20: No, [LAUGH] no, I'm not. I'm a member by mistake, I pressed the
button by mistake. Now, I don't know how to end it.

=== PAGE 11 ===
Pay What You Want (Part 1)
3.1 Pay What You Want Part 1 Lecture
[Lecture: Pay What You Want Part 1  Full Transcript]
Speaker: Steve
Pricing is the moment of truth. All marketing comes into focus in the pricing deci-
sion.  Thomas Nagle.
As illustrated by this quote by pricing expert Thomas Nagle, picking the right price
is an important part of a rm's marketing strategy. If the price is too high, rms will
lose potential sales. If it's too low, they will lose potential revenue. Thus, the key is to
nd the price that's just right.
The problem is, what is right for you, maybe too high or too low for me. Thus,
allowing price to vary according to the value that a product provides to various potential
customers makes a lot of sense.
Firms try to do this in a number of ways. For example, in the US, movie theaters oer
discounts to demographic groups that traditionally have lower incomes, such as students
and senior citizens. This approach is called price segmentation, and is commonly used as
a pricing approach. The setting of these dierent price segments have been traditionally
determined by rms rather than by customers. For example, my local grocery store oers
discounts on donuts that are two days old. I can't walk into the store and say that I
wanna pay a discounted price for freshly baked donuts. That's not how it works.
However, in recent years, a few rms have experimented with the idea of allowing
their customers to segment themselves by letting them name their own price. This rather
unorthodox strategy is gaining popularity, and is called pay what you want, or PWYW
for short. Although this pricing strategy has been employed in physical stores, it is
ideally suited for digital marketing because of the increased ability of rms to control the
distribution of their product and to track customer payment activity. In addition, since
the marginal cost of a digital good is close to zero, the strategy is relatively low risk.
A wide variety of rms have experimented with a PWYW strategy, including.
1. Radiohead. Back in 2007, the British rock band Radiohead oered its new album
in Rainbow for sale using a PWYW strategy. This approach received worldwide
attention and was a launching pad for the Pay What You Want movement. We'll
discuss this example in more detail during our case discussion of this module.
10

=== PAGE 12 ===
3.2. DEFINITION OF PAY WHAT YOU W ANT 11
2. Headsets.com. In recent years, this online headset retailer has experimented with
a Pay What You Want strategy as a means to rewarding customer loyalty. In these
experiments, they showed a suggested price and found nearly all of its customers
paid the suggested price or close to it. According to its CEO, Mike Faith, this
strategy has resulted in a 30% increase on its return on investment.
3. Wikipedia. If you're like most people, you have used Wikipedia for free. But did
you ever wonder how Wikipedia makes money? Although its content is user-generated,
Wikipedia has lots of other expenses, such as the cost of the servers, technical sup-
port, and attorney fees. Thus, to stay in business, Wikipedia relies on a Pay What
You Want strategy through donations to the Wikimedia Foundation and currently
has over $225 million in assets.
3.2 Denition of Pay What You Want
Pay What You Want is a pricing strategy that lets customers decide how much they
wanna pay for a particular product. Although a rm may suggest a price, its customers
are free to pay less or more than this price. Indeed, several pay-as-you-want oerings let
customers pay even nothing.
3.3 Deeper Dive: Three Key Issues
There are a lot of interesting issues about Pay What You Want. In this lecture, I will
focus on three specic issues.
1. Do people actually pay when they don't have to?
According to standard economic thought, customers are seeking to maximize their utility.
In other words, they wanna get as much as they can for as little as they have to pay.
Thus, from a strictly economic perspective, a Pay What You Want strategy seems quite
foolish, as rational economic actors would just take a product without paying anything
for it.
However, in reality, many people are not just self-interested economic actors, but also
social well-beings who are governed by the norms of honesty and fairness. Thus, while
some do behave as economists suggest, many don't. For example, an academic study
on the buying behavior of customers of a Pay What You Want Restaurant in Vienna,
Austria found that over 99% paid something for the food they ate.

=== PAGE 13 ===
3.3. DEEPER DIVE: THREE KEY ISSUES 12
2. How can a rm make money by giving its product away for
free?
This is a really good question. A rm can't make money or stay in business if it continu-
ously gives its products away for free. Fortunately, many people will pay something for a
product even under a pay what you want strategy. Indeed, as we see it in the Radiohead
case, under a Pay What You Want strategy, some people actually pay more than a rm
would obtain under a typical pricing approach.
Also, because a pay what you want strategy is novel and newsworthy, when a rm
employs this approach, it usually gets a lot of attention. This often results in increased
trac at a higher customer volume. For example, the US National Aquarium in Baltimore
held a Pay What You Want Day in which patrons could set their own admission price.
This event attracted over 7500 visitors, and raised more than $33,000. Both of these
amounts were well over their typical level.
3. Is this pricing strategy sustainable?
As we will discuss shortly, the emerging academic research suggests that a Pay What
You Want strategy is more likely to be successful if it's oered for a limited duration,
available for only a subset of a rm's product oerings, or limited to a certain set of
buyers. Moreover, most of the successful examples of pay what you want have employed
pay what you want on a rather limited basis. For example, Radiohead used Pay What
You Want during the release of one of its recent albums, but employed a more traditional
pricing approach for its next album release. Thus, Pay What You Want appears to be
an approach that is a good change of pace, but not sustainable as a long-term pricing
strategy.
Now, here's Eric to discuss some academic insights about Pay What You Want.

=== PAGE 14 ===
Pay What You Want (Part 2)
4.1 Pay What You Want Part 2 Lecture
[Lecture: Pay What You Want Part 2  Full Transcript]
Speaker: Eric
Thanks, Steve. There are a number of very interesting academic studies about pay
what you want. I'd like to discuss two particular studies, an early one and a more recent
one.
Academic Insight 1: The First Academic Study on PWYW
This rst study, conducted by a group of scholars in Germany, was their very rst aca-
demic study on pay what you want pricing. In addition to introducing this concept and
explaining how it works, this article contains a series of eld experiments. The researchers
convinced three dierent businesses, two restaurants and a movie theater, to employ a
pay what you want strategy for a period of time. They then studied the behavior of over
600 customers across these three dierent businesses.
The results were quite interesting. First of all, they found that everyone paid some-
thingnone of the customers asked to be given the product or service for free, that's
interesting. On average, the prices paid were actually about 50% lower than the prices
typically charged by these companies. However, the average volume of sales during this
period was about 10% higher, thus, price went down, but quantity went up. In total,
the pay what you want strategy resulted in higher than average revenues for both restau-
rants, but lower than average revenues for the movie theater. This article provides initial
evidence that a pay what you want pricing strategy may actually be protable under
certain conditions.
Academic Insight 2: PWYW in Live Streaming
In this more recent article, published in Marketing Science in 2021, Shijae Lu from the
University of Notre Dame and his colleagues examine PWYW pricing in the context of
live streaming. As you may know, live streaming is an increasingly popular way for rms
to sell products across a growing number of countries. Live streaming shows are also a
good example of a pay what you want approach because the host of these shows typically
ask for tips and viewers can tip as little or as much as they want.
Specically, these researchers were interested in understanding how the size of a live
13

=== PAGE 15 ===
4.2. FOUR PRACTICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PWYW 14
streaming audience might aect the amount of tipping among its viewers. They examined
this via a clever experiment in which they manipulated audience size for several dierent
live streaming shows across China.
The results reveal a positive relationship between audience size and average tip per
viewer. The results of this study suggest that the presence of more viewers increases
social image concerns, which in turn increase the amount of tipping. In sum, this research
indicates that tactics that increase the salience of our social image how we are viewed
by othersmay be eective in terms of enhancing the success of a pay what you want
pricing strategy.
Back to you, Steve.
4.2 Four Practical Recommendations for PWYW
Speaker: Steve
Now that you've learned a little bit about what pay what you want is and how it
works, here are four recommendations for putting this concept into practice.
1. Set a Reference Price
As we discussed earlier, most customers have a reference price in mind when evaluating
a potential purchase. This reference price eect can also be employed in pay what you
want pricing. One way of doing this would be to clearly display the price of a comparative
item. For example, if a rm oers pay what you want pricing for vitamin C, it could
announce this next to its price for vitamin D. Most people wanna think of themselves as
fair and honest. Thus, the setting of a reference price should decrease the temptation to
pay little or nothing for a product that employs a pay what you want strategy.
2. Focus on Marginal Costs
Although most customers will likely pay something even when they can name their own
price, this is a risky strategy. Thus, pay what you want is best employed for products
that have low marginal cost. So pay what you want is especially attractive for digital
goods such as music, text, and video. For these type of products, each additional unit
has a very low marginal cost. A rm can take this even one step further by pairing up
a digital pay what you want product with a physical product that has a relatively high
price listed. For example, as part of its pay what you want strategy, Radiohead also
oered customers the opportunity to buy a limited edition discbox of its music for $82.
It sold 100,000 of these disc boxes for a total of over $8 million in revenue.

=== PAGE 16 ===
4.2. FOUR PRACTICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PWYW 15
3. Try a Limited Rollout
As discussed earlier, most successful pay what you want strategies are applied to a lim-
ited range of a rm's product oerings or for a limited duration of time. For example,
headsets.com employed a pay what you want strategy for only two of its several hundred
headsets that it sells. In addition, this pricing strategy is only available to its returning
customers. This type of limited rollout reduces the risk of a pay what you want strategy
while maintaining its attention-getting benets.
4. Use Charity Appeals
Both academic research and practical experience indicate that a pay what you want
strategy is more likely to be successful if the seller announces that some or all of the
proceeds will be donated to charity. For example, a large portion of the appeal of Panera's
pay what you want experiment was the fact that it was donating a substantial portion
of the proceeds to charity. This sends a signal that the seller is generous, which will in
turn encourage customers to exhibit generosity and then be more likely to pay a higher
price. We all like to think of ourselves as generous people.
Eric and I hope that you enjoyed this examination of pay what you want and this
concept helps enrich your digital marketing toolkit.

=== PAGE 17 ===
Case Study: Panera
5.1 Case Study: Panera Lecture
[Case Study: Panera  Full Transcript]
Speaker: Steve
If you are like me, you probably enjoy eating a nice meal at a restaurant at least a
couple times a week. It's nice not to have to cook, and visiting a restaurant can be a
good way to spend some time with family, friends and colleagues. Now, although America
is not very famous for its food, many of our restaurants are quite well known. Even if
you've never been in the US, you've probably eaten an American-based restaurant chain
such as McDonald's, Pizza Hut or Subway.
One of my favorite restaurant chains here in the US is Panera Bread. Those of you
who live in North America are probably familiar with this restaurant. Panera has over
2000 locations across the US and Canada and is one of the largest bakery chains in the
world. Here in Champaign, Illinois, we have two Panera restaurants. In addition to
delicious breads and pastries, Panera also serves great soups, salads and sandwiches. My
favorite Panera meal is a grilled cheese and chicken soup combo with a side of chips. It's
simply delicious.
The purpose of this case study is to illustrate and apply the concept of pay what you
want pricing to an actual business.
First, a bit of background. In addition to serving delicious food, Panera is also a
very socially responsible company and cares a lot about its community. In order to
give back to its community, in 2010, Panera implemented a pay what you want pricing
strategy in one of its restaurants in St. Louis, Missouri, just down the road from here.
It then opened four other pay what you want restaurants across America in Boston,
Massachusetts, Dearborn, Michigan, Chicago, Illinois, and Portland, Oregon.
Across these ve locations, Panera found that around 60% of their customers paid the
suggested price, 20% paid less and actually 20% paid more than the suggested price. In
total, close to 90% of their customers paid something when they could have gotten their
food for absolutely free.
Since Panera is a well-known restaurant, its pay what you want pricing strategy gained
lots of attention and was viewed as a very innovative approach. For example, as shown
in the required video, a CBS news story proclaimed that by implementing this approach,
16

=== PAGE 18 ===
5.2. THREE KEY TAKEA W AYS 17
Panera was a business genius.
Despite these positive accolades, Panera was never able to expand this strategy beyond
these initial ve stores, and by early 2019, all ve of these stores were closed.
5.2 Three Key Takeaways
Here's the key issue: Panera's pay what you want pricing strategy was a bold experiment
that lasted nearly a decade and served over 2 million meals while it lasted. The assigned
reading and video highlight a sense of what Panera was trying to accomplish with this
initiative and how its customers responded. In brief, there are three key takeaways you
should consider as you think about this case.
1. Protability
As a business, Panera seeks to make a prot or at least avoid a loss. Although most of
Panera's customers were paying something for their food, their PWYW restaurants were
experiencing about a 30% loss on average. Thus, this approach did not achieve long-term
protability.
2. Customer Response
Panera's PWYW strategy also had some unexpected responses from their customers.
Although Panera was very clear that this strategy was meant to help people who could
not aord to pay a full price for their meals, a number of people who could aord simply
chose not to. Also, their PWYW restaurants attracted a large number of homeless people,
which resulted in a decline in the regular customer base. For example, one of its paying
customers complained, These homeless people stink, I can't stand eating like this.
3. Impact on Employees
This change in Panera's customer base also had an impact on its employees. For example,
since only ve of Panera's 2000 stores employed a PWYW strategy, customers were often
confused by this approach and employees had to spend lots of time explaining how it
worked. Also, many of their homeless customers were drug addicts or had some form of
mental illness. Those employees had to engage in non-typical duties such as dealing with
people using drugs in the bathroom.
5.3 Case Study Questions
I'd like you to carefully consider these issues as you evaluate the wisdom of Panera's
pricing strategy, and I hope this helps you answer the following three questions.
1. Was Panera's PWYW experiment a success or a failure?

=== PAGE 19 ===
5.3. CASE STUDY QUESTIONS 18
2. Would the outcome have been dierent if Panera was selling a digital product rather
than a physical one?
3. How could Panera have improved its PWYW strategy? What digital tools could
they have used to enhance its success?
I hope you enjoyed working on this case study. I look forward to seeing your thoughts.
Bonus fact: Panera Bread was founded back in 1987 and was initially known as the
St. Louis Bread Company because that is where it began. It changed its name to Panera
back in 1997 to give the brand a more global focus. In fact, the word panera is Finnish
and means bread basket.
Good luck with the case.

=== PAGE 20 ===
Freemium (Part 1)
6.1 Freemium Part 1 Lecture
[Lecture: Freemium Part 1  Full Transcript]
Speaker: Steve
There's no such thing as a free lunch.  Milton Friedman.
As illustrated by this quote from the famous economist, Milton Friedman, few things
in life are free. Instead, we usually have to pay something for the things we want and
need. In essence, most things have a price.
If you recall from the start of the course, the four Psproduct, promotion, place-
ment, and priceserve as a toolbox for marketers that help them attract consumers and
compete against competitors. Although marketers usually lump these four Ps together,
price is very dierent than the other Ps. Specically, product, promotion, and placement
are the ways in which rms create value for customers. In contrast, price provides a way
for rms to capture this value in the form of nancial payment for their eorts. Thus,
setting the right price is a critically important part of the marketing equation.
Although the prices that marketers set may be driven by a variety of dierent ap-
proaches, such as cost-based pricing versus competitor-based pricing, most every product
or service charges some sort of price. In essence, the oerings provided by marketers cost
something, they're usually not free. When's the last time that you walked into a physical
store and walked out with a product you didn't pay for? If you did, you probably were
breaking the law.
Our traditional understanding of how pricing works is becoming increasingly chal-
lenged by the rise of new digital tools. For example, platforms such as eBay ip the way
prices are set by allowing customers to bid on the price of a product. Another intriguing
development is the rise of the freemium model, which allows customers to access a portion
of a product or service for free, and then pay only for any added oerings that they would
like to have. The freemium model is quite common for smartphone apps and can also be
found in a number of other digital domains, including software, social media sites, and
communication platforms.
In this video lecture, we'll take a look at how freemiums work and the potential
advantages they oer to both rms and consumers in our new digital world.
19

=== PAGE 21 ===
6.2. EXAMPLES OF FREEMIUM 20
6.2 Examples of Freemium
Here are a few examples of some familiar rms that successfully employ the freemium
model.
1. Dropbox
Many of you probably have a Dropbox account. Dropbox is one of the world's leading
le hosting platforms, with over 700 million customers across more than 200 countries.
Dropbox provides free subscribers with two gigabytes of digital storing capacity. Once this
limit is reached, a customer can upgrade to dierent types of premium subscriptions for a
low monthly fee. These premium subscriptions, Dropbox Plus and Dropbox Professional,
provide customers with at least two terabytes of storage capacity, which is a million
times larger than a free account, as well as a variety of other features such as text search
function and a 30-day le recovery service. Thus far, Dropbox has convinced nearly 20
million people to become premium subscribers.
2. LinkedIn
LinkedIn is one of the world's leading professional networking services, and currently has
over 800 million registered users across more than 200 countries. All LinkedIn members
can create a digital prole, connect with other members, and contact potential employers
or employees for free. In addition to these free services, LinkedIn also oers a variety
of dierent premium memberships that range in price from around $30 to about $150
a month. These various memberships are targeted to dierent segments, such as job
seekers, hiring rms, and salespeople. These premium subscribers have access to a variety
of additional features not available to LinkedIn's free members. For example, individuals
who subscribe to its premium career service gain access to hiring managers and can
compare their qualications to other applicants. Approximately 40% of LinkedIn's users
subscribe to one of its premium services.
3. New York Times
The New York Times is one of America's oldest, largest, and most prestigious newspapers.
Like most newspapers, the New York Times has been dramatically aected by the digital
revolution and has seen the number of subscribers to its physical product decline over
the past two decades. In response, the New York Times has created a nice online version
of its newspaper and markets it using a freemium approach. Non-subscribers, free users,
are allowed to access ve New York Times articles per month. If they want more than
that, they'll have to pay for a subscription. Over the years, the New York Times has
changed its subscription price and oers discounts to certain segments, such as college
students. At present, readers can get unlimited access to the New York Times for about

=== PAGE 22 ===
6.3. DEFINITION OF FREEMIUM 21
$25 a month, or less than a dollar a day. This price is quite appealing to many customers,
and the New York Times has over 10 million paid online subscribers, which is nearly 20
times larger than the number of subscribers to its physical newspapers.
6.3 Denition of Freemium
A freemium is a digital product or service that oers a set of basic features for free, but
charges a price, usually a monthly or yearly subscription, for a set of premium features.
In essence, a freemium combines free and premium. A freemium model can work well for
digital products or services due to the fact that the marginal cost of adding a new user
is close to zero.
6.4 Deeper Dive: Three Key Observations
There are a lot of interesting issues surrounding the concept of freemium pricing. For the
purpose of this discussion, I plan on focusing on three key observations about this topic.
1. 5% Rule of Thumb
A freemium model is based on the assumption that a small percentage of paying customers
can provide enough revenue to cover the cost of serving all of the rm's free customers.
Thus, an important question is, what percentage of paying customers does a freemium
business need? While the answer to this question somewhat depends on the size of the
business's user base and its cost structure, 5% is a good rule of thumb. In general, most
freemium platforms seem to have a conversion rate between 2% and 5%. For example,
Dropbox appears to be within this range. However, some freemium oerings, such as
LinkedIn, have a much higher rate of conversion.
2. Zero Price Eect
In order to succeed as a freemium, a business needs to strike a balance between oering
enough free features to attract new customers while putting enough premium features
behind a paywall in order to convert enough of these customers into paying members. If
too many of its valuable features are free, a business runs the risk of the zero price eect.
This occurs when the free option has provided so much value that free customers have
little or no incentive to subscribe to a premium version. One way to reduce the risk of
zero price eect is to allow free users to temporarily see and use the features available
to premium subscribers. For example, at times, LinkedIn will allow free users temporary
access to its premium levels.

=== PAGE 23 ===
6.4. DEEPER DIVE: THREE KEY OBSER V ATIONS 22
3. Twin Roles
We usually think of customers as providing value to a rm through their purchase activity.
Thus, according to our traditional perspective, customers who don't pay anything are not
worth anything. In contrast, freemium customers who don't initially pay anything provide
value in at least two ways. First, free users can provide value by upgrading to a premium
membership. Second, free users can provide value through positive word of mouth and
telling others about a free oering. When we combine these twin roles, we nd that a
free user is typically worth as much as 15% to 25% of a premium subscriber. Not too
shabby.
Now here's Eric to discuss some academic insights about freemium pricing.

=== PAGE 24 ===
Freemium (Part 2)
7.1 Freemium Part 2 Lecture
[Lecture: Freemium Part 2  Full Transcript]
Speaker: Eric
Thanks Steve. There are several interesting academic studies about freemium pricing.
I'd like to share two intriguing recent studies with you.
Academic Insight 1: Freemium Strategy in the Mobile App Market
This 2023 Management Science article by Yiting Deng from University College London
and her colleagues focuses on the eectiveness of freemium strategies for mobile apps.
Specically, these scholars investigate the eect of launching a free version of an app
upon downloads of paid versions of the same app. They do this by empirically examining
nearly 200,000 dierent mobile gaming apps within the Apple App Store.
The results suggest that, on average, the launch of a free version of an app has a
positive eect upon purchase of the paid version. They suggest that this positive eect is
due to something they call the sampling eect. In essence, by providing consumers with
a sample of what a paid version contains, a free version of an app helps alleviate concerns
about product quality, which in turn should enhance product adoption. The results also
conrm that a freemium strategy is more likely to succeed when the paid version oers
substantially more benets than the free version. In sum, these results suggest that a
freemium strategy can indeed be an eective way to enhance product sales by providing
consumers with the ability to sample the paid version for free.
Academic Insight 2: Competing on Freemium with Network Ef-
fects
In this 2022 article, published in Strategic Management Journal , Kevin Boudreau from
Northeastern University in Boston and his colleagues examine how a freemium pricing
strategy impacts a rm's revenue. Specically, this article focuses on the revenue implica-
tions for rms that are market leaders versus market followers. To empirically investigate
this question, they examined over 33,000 mobile apps posted on the Apple App Store
and compared the results for oerings created by market leaders versus those created by
market followers.
23

=== PAGE 25 ===
7.2. FOUR PRACTICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FREEMIUM 24
They nd that a freemium approach is much more eective for leaders than for fol-
lowers. In fact, the results indicate that market leaders that employ a freemium strategy
enjoy 55% higher revenue compared to market followers that employ the same approach.
These researchers suggest that this dierence is largely due to the fact that market leaders
enjoy superior network eects, in which a product is more valuable to a user as it gains
additional users. In sum, the results of this research suggest that when network eects
are present, a freemium strategy is likely to be more eective for rms that are market
leaders than those that are market followers.
Back to you, Steve.
7.2 Four Practical Recommendations for Freemium
Speaker: Steve
Now that you've learned a bit about what freemium pricing is and how it works, here
are four recommendations for putting this concept into practice.
1. Add New Features
The initial buyers of any new oering are typically innovators and early adopters who
are quite dierent than later buyers. This observation is also true for freemium oerings.
Most freemium platforms nd that it is easier to convert early free subscribers into paying
customers than it is to convert late adopters. Thus, they need to make their oerings
more appealing over time by adding new features. For example, when Dropbox was
rst launched in 2008, it was essentially just a le backup service. However, over time,
Dropbox added a variety of new features, such as the ability to share photos with others
and the convenience of automatic photo uploading.
2. Be Sticky
Usually, being sticky is not a good thing. However, being sticky is a very good thing for
freemium businesses. The more sticky they are, the harder it is for a customer to switch
to a competitive oering. Freemium products and services can be sticky in at least two
dierent ways. First, a freemium can be sticky due to network eects. A network eect
occurs when the value of an oering for an existing customer increases as it gains more
customers. For example, as a professional networking service, LinkedIn's value becomes
higher as it expands its subscriber base, as each new subscriber is a potential network
contact. Thus, LinkedIn gets stickier as it gains more customers. Freemium oers can
also become sticky through switching costs, which make it dicult to leave a platform
for another provider. For example, customers who have uploaded lots of documents on
Dropbox would have to spend a lot of time and eort to download and upload all these
les if they wanted to transfer to another le storage provider. Due to these switching

=== PAGE 26 ===
7.2. FOUR PRACTICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FREEMIUM 25
costs, once a customer joins a freemium platform, they're pretty much likely to stay there.
3. Be Restrictive
In order to successfully convert free users into paying subscribers, freemium platforms
need to oer some benets that are restricted to only their premium members. There are
lots of dierent types of restrictions that can be used. Two of the most common types
are restricted capacity and restricted features. For example, as we discussed earlier,
Dropbox restricts both capacity by limiting free users to an online storage capacity of
only 2 gigabytes, as well as features by not allowing free users to obtain more advanced
features like le recovery.
4. Reduce Your Marketing Costs
In a traditional business model, rms launch an expensive advertising campaign to raise
awareness for their oerings and acquire new customers. A freemium model allows rms
to greatly reduce their upfront marketing costs because the free nature of their oering is
a low-cost and eective way to quickly acquire a large number of customers. Also, when
we get something for free, we also tell our friends, our family, and our colleagues about
it. So freemium platforms often obtain a high degree of positive word of mouth, which
helps attract even more customers. Thus, rms that employ a freemium model should be
able to spend much less upfront on marketing compared to a more traditional business.
Eric and I hope that you enjoyed this examination of freemium pricing and that this
concept helps enrich your digital marketing toolkit.

=== PAGE 27 ===
Exercise: It's Full of Sparks
8.1 Exercise: It's Full of Sparks Lecture
[Exercise: It's Full of Sparks  Full Transcript]
Speaker: Steve
Since you are enrolled in a digital course, I assume that you've probably played a
game on a smartphone or tablet before. There are thousands of games available for
downloading, and many of them employ a freemium model. Thus, I thought that mobile
games would be a good example for this module's exercise.
Now, most of you are probably digital natives and likely have one or more games
already downloaded on your phone or tablet. If you don't, you can easily nd one at your
app store. If you don't own a smartphone or tablet, that's okay. You can simply view
the game that I explore in this video and use it to answer the questions for this exercise.
A freemium game is one that can be downloaded for free and played for a few levels
or for a limited time, but requires that you buy upgrades or purchase a premium version
to gain additional features or levels. The game that I suggest you try is called It's Full
of Sparks. This game has beautiful graphics, some clever features, and is highly rated.
It's available on both Apple and Android phones and tablets.
In this game you play the role of a recracker that is lit on re and will soon explode.
The goal of the game is to progress through a series of levels to nd the Old One, a
mythical recracker whose fuse has never been lit. The motto of the game is, When the
spark of life is lit, the countdown begins. How true?
Let me give you an idea of how this game is played. After downloading the game,
you get ten recrackers for free. Each one is a dierent character. After these are gone,
you'll have four options. Which one will you pick?
The purpose of this exercise is to help you gain a deeper appreciation for freemium
pricing by taking the role of a consumer who is faced with the decision of paying a
premium for an added feature to something that is free.
8.2 Exercise Instructions
Here's what you need to do to complete this exercise.
1. First, as we discussed, nd a freemium game that you'd like to download.
26

=== PAGE 28 ===
8.3. IT'S FULL OF SPARKS ASSIGNMENT EXAMPLE 27
2. Second, play this game and have fun.
3. Third, take a look at the freemium options.
4. Fourth, and nally, decide what you want to do about these various options. Do
you wanna upgrade or keep it for free?
Now, here's your assignment.
1. First, please record the name of the game that you played. If you weren't able to
download a game, you can just use It's Full of Sparks as an example.
2. Second, what options did the game provide? Please describe the nature of the
freemium and how much it cost.
3. Third, did you decide to purchase the freemium? Why or why not?
4. And fourth and nally, what did you learn about freemium pricing from this exer-
cise?
Finally, before you leave, let's check in with Professor Steve.
Steve: Check out my freemium game, Dawn of Ages. Now I gotta get something to
help me out. Yes.
8.3 It's Full of Sparks Assignment Example
[Assignment Submission  Student Response]
Submitted on: April 10, 2026
Task 1: Record the name of the game that you played.
Student Response: It's Full of Sparks
Task 2: What options did the game provide? Please describe the
nature of the freemium and how much it cost.
Student Response: The game provides ten free recrackers initially. Once they run out,
you can wait for them to recharge, watch a video to earn more, or purchase a premium
experience for $2.99 that removes ads and gives unlimited play.
Task 3: Did you decide to purchase the freemium? Why or why
not?
Student Response: I did not purchase because the free option with occasional ads was
sucient for my casual play. However, I was tempted after running out of recrackers
quickly.

=== PAGE 29 ===
8.3. IT'S FULL OF SPARKS ASSIGNMENT EXAMPLE 28
Task 4: What did you learn about freemium pricing from this
exercise?
Student Response: I learned that freemium works by creating enough value in the free
version to hook users, but then restricting key features (like unlimited lives) to create a
strong incentive to upgrade. The friction of waiting or watching ads makes the premium
price seem reasonable.
Rubric for All Tasks
ˆ 0 points: No answer, completely irrelevant answer, inadequate material, and/or
evidence does not t the argument.
ˆ 1 point: Insucient response. An insucient response means that the response is
incomplete (i.e., does not address all items in the question).
ˆ 2 points: Good response and meets expectations. A good response addresses all
of the items in the question. (This is a passing response.)
ˆ 3 points: Excellent response and exceeds expectations. An excellent response
is one that demonstrates originality, creative thinking, and/or references relevant
lectures or discussion forum responses, current news, etc.

=== PAGE 30 ===
Interview with Cody Burch
9.1 Interview: Cody Burch on Pay What You Want
[Interview: Cody Burch  Full Transcript]
Interviewer: Welcome to our fourth and nal expert insight. In this module, I
interview Cody Burch. Cody is a well-known marketing strategist and the founder of
Red Anchor Marketing. In addition, he's also an expert on the topic of pay what you
want pricing. Welcome, Cody, thank you for joining us.
Cody: Yeah, thanks for having me. I'm excited for this conversation. Yeah, so
as you said, I'm a digital marketing expert and consultant. I did digital marketing for
a company for about eleven years and became certied as best I could. There's not
a lot of certications at the time, at least in the digital marketing expertise. And we
were doing some consulting with speakers, authors and coaches and I was doing all of our
digital marketing, really every discipline, from content marketing, email writing, blogging,
funnels and lead generation and Facebook advertising, and also doing digital marketing
for those consulting clients that we had.
And in 2017, I decided to jump ship based on that theory that there are other people
that could use this expertise in terms of online lead generation and sales generation, and
started my own digital marketing agency called Red Anchor Marketing. And now I focus
on my communities, my live events and my consulting to help people get more leads and
sales using the power of Facebook ads and marketing and sales funnels.
I was haunted by a friend of mine in a Facebook community who was getting thousands
of customers. I was getting thousands of leads, he was getting thousands of customers
using a pay what you want strategy. And he was in a really small niche. He was using
a specic software in the music industry toI'm not a musician, so forgive my lack of
understanding of what he was doing. But he basically had these audio templates that he
was selling on a pay what you want model.
I knew about this for years, I met him at several in-person events and sat with him at
dinner one night. He was telling me all about this pay what you want thing and how he
was getting dozens of customers a day. And so that just messed with my head for about a
year. I thought, I've got to gure out what this looks like for my business because I only
have a few dozen customers, meaning people who had ever just pulled out their credit
card and paid an invoice. I didn't have hundreds of customers or thousands of customers.
29

=== PAGE 31 ===
9.1. INTER VIEW: CODY BURCH ON PAY WHAT YOU W ANT 30
And we all know how much more valuable a paying customer is compared to somebody
who just gave us their email address and became a lead.
And so it was over about that one year period, watching my friend succeed so greatly
with the pay what you want strategy that I decided to ip it to the digital marketing side
because I'm not a musician. And I wanted to oer digital marketing resources on the
pay what you want model. In the summer of 2020, I had this library of funnel templates
and I had something that people were used to paying for. So I bundled them all up and
put 27 funnel templates for the software ClickFunnels on a pay what you want sale, and
then it just took o.
So I put it on sale, 27 funnel templates for $1, that was the minimum. Now with
pay what you want, you set, typically, depending on the software you're using, you set
the minimum that you'll accept. And based on my friend's experience, the one that was
haunting me with his music templates, he said he even tried his. I think he went as
down as low as zero. And he said people would literally pay zero or they'd pay a penny.
Then you have to pay $0.30 and a processing fee to Stripe or a credit card company. He
said the lowest he ever charged was a dollar, so let's just go for that. I'll make a dollar
the minimumI was going to say bid, bid's not quite the right word, but the minimum
amount that I would accept was $1. And people could put in any amount they wanted
over that.
And that's where it got really interesting. And I wrote down some of the numbers
here. I sold 521 of those oers. So I went from having 60 customers to adding 521
customers over the course of about six weeks. And even though they could put in the
minimum of a dollar, which most did, the average order value, where they could type in
whatever number they wanted, was $6.61. The highest anybody paid was $97. And I
thought that was really interesting, you could've had a dollar, but he typed in 97, typed
in his credit card or his PayPal and hit submit order. Some people paid 25, some people
paid 50. Again, most paid the minimum, most paid a dollar.
Which is why the next thing I want to chat with you about is so important. Because
the point of a successful pay what you want strategy is not to just give people something
awesome for a dollar. It's to have order bumps and upsells and pay close attention to
your average order value. Because then you can make decisions on paid media or joint
venture trac or other trac sources. If you know what your average order value is, you
can more condently decide how much you want to spend to get trac on your pay what
you want oer.
And so we can talk about how we did that. But my average order value over those
521 orders, my average order value was $20.73. So by the time it was all said and done
and they were completed the checkout process, the average person on a $1 oer had spent
$20.73.
Yeah, the software I use to set it up is called SamCart. And that was my main reason

=== PAGE 32 ===
9.1. INTER VIEW: CODY BURCH ON PAY WHAT YOU W ANT 31
I joined SamCart. So SamCart's an online shopping cart. It's all it does, it's not a
landing page builder like Leadpages or ClickFunnels. Samcart only takes people's money,
but they make it really easy. So they've got a lot of pre-designed templates. They make
it really easy to do digital wallets as well as credit cards, as well as PayPal on the same
order form.
And my experience was with ClickFunnels, and in ClickFunnels you had to duplicate
your sales page if someone wanted to use PayPal. And so that's one of the important
lessons I learned too, is make it as easy as possible for people to check out. And so many
people are accustomed to one-click orders from Amazon or any kind of online shopping
cart is so clean now to have to nd your wallet or get your credit card. About half my
orders came through PayPal, which for me, that was the rst time I was ablenow that
I had SamCart, I was able to very easily take PayPal as a payment method.
That's a great question. I came up with three things I think are really important.
The rst one is to really focus hard on your rst oer. So what is the rst thing that
people are going to want to buy? And that's your pay what you want oer. It's gotta
be something high desire, it's gotta be something that solves a painful problem. It's got
to be something that feels really generous and robust, where they do a double take when
they see that they can name their price.
The second tip is to remember that the pay what you want oer is just the starting
point. The point of the pay what you want oer, in my case, a dollar for 27 funnel
templates, was to get strangers to click o of Facebook, come to my sales page and give
me their credit card. So not just their name and email address, but become a customer,
get out your wallet or sync up your PayPal, hire me to do something. But it cost me
between $12 and $15 to make that happen from cold trac over six weeks, that was the
average.
So I can't be giving away 27 templates for a dollar, I have to increase my average
order value. And that's where order bumps and upsells come into play. If you don't know
an order bump is something, think about maybe a stick of gum you're going to check out
at the grocery store. On the way out they say, do you also want this? You're already
buying something, did you also want to add this to your order? Or it's like biggie sizing
your value meal at a fast food restaurant. So 35% of people, in my case, took the order
bumpone over one out of threeand it generated two thirds of the revenue. So wrap
your head around that math, that's how important the order bump is on a pay what you
want oer.
And the last thing I would say to people running an oer like this is to test and
measure. So test dierent oers, test dierent price points, test dierent upsells, test
dierent order bumps, and pay close attention to the data.
I love marketing, I'm a complete nerd about just trying anything. I'll try anything
twice. If I try it once and it fails, I'll try it one more time and see if I can make it work.

=== PAGE 33 ===
9.1. INTER VIEW: CODY BURCH ON PAY WHAT YOU W ANT 32
And that's led to me doing things like this pay what you want oer, which took me a few
attempts to get it right. Everything from hosting live events, in-person events, virtual
events. I've tried webinars and summits and ve day challenges and free stu and paid
stu and high end stu, and it's been a lot of fun.
So I would recommend anybody that hasespecially a digital resource, especially
something like a template or something that's high value that people are accustomed to
paying forI recommend you try it out, try a pay what you want oer. You don't have
to be beholden to it for the rest of your life, but it's something that is worth testing and
worth trying. Like anything good with marketing, you never know what's under that
rock.
Yeah, I live in Colorado Springs, Colorado. People can nd out more about me on
my website, codyburch.com. And I've got lots of free stu on the website, as usual, the
book is a digital resource for free. If you go to onehourfunnel.com, there's also free mini
courses around digital marketing, setting up your ad account, helping people get the rst
step, and getting that rst win at onehourfunnel.com.

=== PAGE 34 ===
Course Farewell
10.1 Course Farewell Lecture
[Lecture: Course Farewell  Full Transcript]
Speakers: Steve and Eric
This concludes our course on marketing in a digital world. We hope that you learned
some new concepts, acquired some new tools, and heard some new stories.
More importantly, we hope this course provided you with some new insights about
how new digital tools like the Internet, smartphone, and 3D printer are changing the
marketing landscape.
To wrap up, here are four key lessons from this course.
1. Marketing is a process of value exchange that is facilitated by the four Ps: product,
promotion, placement, and price.
2. The tools employed in enacting the four Ps are increasingly becoming digital and
also democratized across a large number of consumers.
3. These changes are shifting the balance of power from rms to consumers.
4. As a result, rms are losing control over the marketing mix and consumers are
taking on a more active and expansive role in these marketing activities.
The remaining courses in our digital marketing specialization will examine this new
digital world in more detail.
The next course in our specialization, Digital Marketing Analytics, will introduce you
to the art and science of data analytics. This course will provide the foundation that you
need to apply analytics to a wide variety of digital marketing challenges.
Thank you for participating in this course, we hope that you enjoy the rest of our
specialization.
Thank you, everybody.
33

=== PAGE 35 ===
Quiz Questions and Answers
11.1 Quiz: Price Overview
Question 1: Academic research suggests that for many product categories, customers
have relatively high level of price knowledge.
Options: True False
Answer: False
Explanation: Research shows that fewer than half of supermarket shoppers knew the
exact price of items they placed in their carts. Consumers have low exact price recall but
good recognition of approximate price ranges.
Question 2: Which of the following are commonly used pricing strategies?
Options: Value-based pricing Competitor-based pricing Cost-plus pricing All
of the above
Answer: All of the above
Explanation: The lecture identies three common strategies: cost-based (cost-plus),
competitor-based, and value-based pricing.
11.2 Quiz: Pay What You Want
Question 1: Price is determined by the value a product or service delivers to various
potential customers.
Options: True False
Answer: True
Explanation: This reects the logic of value-based pricing and the idea that the right
price varies by customer, which underpins the Pay What You Want concept.
Question 2: Which of the following practices are useful in implementing a Pay What
You Want strategy?
Options: Setting a reference price Employing charity appeals Focusing on marginal
cost All of the above
Answer: All of the above
Explanation: The four practical recommendations for PWYW include setting a ref-
erence price, focusing on low marginal-cost goods, trying a limited rollout, and using
charity appeals. All listed are explicitly recommended.
34

=== PAGE 36 ===
11.3. QUIZ: FREEMIUM 35
11.3 Quiz: Freemium
Question 1: The Freemium business model is based on which of the following ideas?
Options: Creating a platform that will benet only limited number of premium users
Providing users with free services and products Delivering as many free features as
possible to users Oering a set of basic features for free but charges a price for premium
features.
Answer: Oering a set of basic features for free but charges a price for premium
features.
Explanation: The denition states that a freemium combines free basic features with
a paid premium tier.
Question 2: Which of the types of perceived values is directly associated with cus-
tomers' intent to upgrade from a free subscription to a premium subscription?
Options: Quality Economic value Social value Enjoyment
Answer: Economic value
Explanation: Based on the Hamari et al. (2019) reading on freemium games, economic
value (perceived value for money) is a key driver of premium purchase intentions, though
enjoyment also plays a role; among the options, economic value is the most directly tied
to the upgrade decision in freemium research.
11.4 Quiz: It's Full of Sparks Exercise
Question 1: According to the It's Full of Sparks exercise video, which of the following
statement about Freemium Games is CORRECT?
Options: Freemium games usually have add-on items you have to pay later on.
Freemium games cost a small fee to download Freemium games can be only found
on Android devices.
Answer: Freemium games usually have add-on items you have to pay later on.
Explanation: Freemium games are free to download but include optional in-app pur-
chases for upgrades or additional content.
Question 2: According to the It's Full of Sparks exercise video, how many free
recrackers do you get initially in the It's Full of Sparks game?
Options: 10 8 5 1
Answer: 10
Question 3: In It's Full of Sparks game, how many recrackers do you receive by
watching a short video?
Options: 8 10 1 5
Answer: 1
Question 4: Removing ads is usually a reason for upgrade in freemium games.

=== PAGE 37 ===
11.5. MODULE 4 COMPREHENSIVE QUIZ 36
Options: True False
Answer: True
Question 5: In It's Full of Sparks game, how much does it cost for the premium
experience?
Options: $2.99 It's completely free. $0.99 $1.99
Answer: $2.99
Question 6: What did you learn about the freemium pricing?
Sample Answer: Freemium pricing works by oering a free core experience to build
a user base, then creating strong incentives (removing ads, unlocking unlimited play) to
convert engaged users into paying customers. It lowers the barrier to entry while still
generating revenue from a fraction of users.
11.5 Module 4 Comprehensive Quiz
Question 1: Which one of these is NOT one of the pricing concepts mentioned in the
course?
Options: Price elasticity Price fairness Reference prices Break-even analysis
Answer: Price fairness
Explanation: The lecture lists breakeven analysis, price elasticity, and reference pric-
ing as key concepts. Price fairness is not explicitly introduced as a core concept in this
module.
Question 2: Making a right pricing decision for a rm is crucial because:
Options: It provides a rm with a sustainable competitive advantage It aects a
rm's protability It helps the rm be unique It creates value for customers
Answer: It aects a rm's protability
Explanation: The lecture emphasizes that price captures value and is critical for
protability and survival.
Question 3: Which of these factors should rms consider when setting a price?
Options: Cost of production Customer's willingness to pay Price of competing
products All of the above
Answer: All of the above
Question 4: What is the primary reason that the Freemium model is more benecial
when it is applied to digital products or services?
Options: The fact that the marginal cost of adding a new user is close to zero makes
it more eective It is true because Freemium's free options provide consumers with so
much value that they do not have to purchase the premium version Economic value has
a direct positive association with the intention to purchase premium oerings Because
the 5% Rule of Thumb applies to those products
Answer: The fact that the marginal cost of adding a new user is close to zero makes

=== PAGE 38 ===
11.5. MODULE 4 COMPREHENSIVE QUIZ 37
it more eective
Explanation: Digital goods have near-zero marginal cost, making it economically
feasible to serve many free users while converting a small percentage to paid plans.
Question 5: Freemium models are commonly employed in which of the following
categories?
Options: Smartphone apps Social media and communication platforms Software
All of the above
Answer: All of the above
Question 6: What happens if a rm sets its prices too high?
Options: The rm may lose potential revenue The rm may lose potential sales
The rm will be less protable All of the above
Answer: The rm may lose potential sales
Explanation: The lecture states: If the price is too high, rms will lose potential
sales. While other outcomes can occur, the direct statement from the lecture focuses on
lost sales.
Question 7: Pay what you want (PWYW) strategy is a good way to maximize a
rm's prot.
Options: True False
Answer: False
Explanation: PWYW is risky and not typically sustainable for long-term prot max-
imization; it often results in lower prices and is best used in limited, strategic ways.
Question 8: Which statement about Pay What You Want (PWYW) pricing strategy
below is CORRECT?
Options: This pricing strategy is considered sustainable and many rms may benet
from using it. A rm using PWYW strategy will set a reference and a minimum
required price and customers are free to pay more than those prices. In this strategy,
a rm may suggest a price. However, customers can get the product at any price they
wish, even at no cost. In this strategy, customers will receive a product or service as
long as they pay something.
Answer: In this strategy, a rm may suggest a price. However, customers can get
the product at any price they wish, even at no cost.
Explanation: The denition states that customers are free to pay less or more than a
suggested price, and some oerings allow payment of nothing.
Question 9: What are the possible ways for Freemium model businesses to convert
their Free subscribers into Premium subscribers?
Options: Freemium platforms should oer more benets to their premium mem-
bers They need to keep adding new features to make their oerings more appealing
Freemium businesses need to be sticky to make it dicult for customers to switch to
competitors All of the above

=== PAGE 39 ===
11.5. MODULE 4 COMPREHENSIVE QUIZ 38
Answer: All of the above
Question 10: According to the reading, Gu, X., Kannan, P. K., & Ma, L. (2019).
How companies can get the most out of a freemium business model. Harvard Business Re-
view, how does a rm implement Versioning strategy in the Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)
space?
Options: By encouraging the Free Mentality of customers to deliver more quality
benets and features to them By extending the premium product lines according to
customer behavior and their response, to elevate their willingness to pay for premium
oerings By upgrading the product constantly and increasing the number of free of-
ferings to receive more positive feedback By creating customer enjoyment to capture
more value for the rm
Answer: By extending the premium product lines according to customer behavior
and their response, to elevate their willingness to pay for premium oerings
Explanation: The HBR article discusses versioning as creating multiple tiers (includ-
ing free, basic, premium) based on customer needs and willingness to pay, not simply
adding more free oerings.
END OF MODULE 4 COMPLETE NOTES

